
Radiology Consultation



Clinical data: Deep venous thrombosis and hypercoagulable state 
for placement of IVC filter

Procedure:
Following informed consent, the patient was placed supine on the 
fluroscopic table. Continuous hemodynamic monitoring was 
performed. The patient received intravenous sedation. Limited 
ultrasound of the right neck demonstrates patency and
compressibility of the right internal jugular vein without 
evidence of intraluminal thrombus. The right groin was prepped 
and draped in sterile fashion. Skin anesthesia was achieved using 
2% Lidocaine solution. The right internal jugular vein was 
punctured using a 21 gauge single wall needle. A 0.018 inch guide 
wire was advanced into the vein and the needle was exchanged for a 
5 French sheath. Via the sheath, a 0.035 inch Bentson guidewire 
was advanced into the vein and the needle was exchanged for a 5 
French vascular sheath. Via the sheath, a 5 French flush catheter 
was placed at the iliac bifurcation. Digital subtraction 
venography was performed from this station.

Findings: Inferior vena cavogram demonstrates standard anatomy. 
No intraluminal filling defects are identified to suggest 
thrombus.
Intervention: A stainless-steel greenfield vena caval filter was 
successfully deployed below the level of the renal veins without
incident within the inferior vena cava. The patient tolerated 
the procedure without complication.

Impression:

1) Normal inferior vena cavogram as above.

2) Successful deployment of IVC filter in the infrarenal IVC as 
above,
Images were reviewed and interpreted by Attending Radiologist: 

Finalized on: Apr-30-2004 4:40 PM by TalkStation Interface
Billing Codes: 36010 x1,37620 x1,75825 x1,75940 x1,14100382 x1,14102006 x1



Radiology Consultation





Clinical data: Subcutaneous abscess from gastrostomy
tube site for drainage

Procedure: The patient was placed supine on the fluroscopic table. 
Continuous monitoring was performed. The left upper quadrant was 
prepped and draped in sterile fashion. Skin anesthesia was 
achieved using 2% Lidocaine solution. Limited ultrasound was 
performed to localize the left upper quadrant subcutaneous fluid 
collection. The left subcutaneous fluid collection was punctured 
under ultrasound guidance using a 21 gauge needle. Pus was 
aspirated with a specimen sent for culture. A 0.018 inch 
guidewire was advanced into the collection and the needle was 
exchanged for a 5 french sheath. Via the sheath a 0.035 inch 
guidewire was advanced into the collection and the sheath was 
exchanged for an 8 french catheter. Via the catheter 
approximately 60cc of pus were aspirated. The catheter was 
sutured to the skin and placed to gravity drainage.

Impression: Ultrasound drainage abdomen as above.
Images were reviewed and interpreted by Attending Radiologist: 
Finalized on: Apr-30-2004 3:32	PM by TalkStation Interface
Billing Codes: 20501 x1,76000 x1,76080 x1,14102022 x1,14102045 x1,14102126 



Clinical data: Osteomyelitis for IV antibiotics
Procedure:
Ultrasound demonstrates patency and compressibility of the right 
brachial vein. The right upper extremity was prepped and draped 
in sterile fashion. Skin anesthesia was achieved using 2 % 
Lidocaine solution. The right brachial vein was punctured under 
ultrasound guidance using a 21 gauge needle. A 0.018 inch 
guidewire was advanced into the SVC and the needle was exchanged 
for a 5 French peel-away sheath. Via this sheath a 5 French 
single lumen PICC line was placed with its tip to the SVC/RA 
junction. The catheter flushed well and was sutured to the skin. 
Dilute heparinized saline was instilled into the catheter. The 
patient tolerated the procedure well without complication.

Findings:

Ultrasound demonstrates patency and compressibility of the right 
brachial vein. Spot fluoroscopic images demonstrate PICC line 
with tip at SVC/RA junction.

Impression:

Successful placement of a 4 French single lumen PICC line using 
ultrasonic and fluoroscopic guidance.
Images were reviewed and interpreted by Attending Radiologist: 
Finalized on: Apr-30-2004 3:18 PM by TalkStation Interface
Billing Codes: 36489 x1,76942 x1,14102077 xlDx Codes: 
